### iclr
### oral
1. [*](#iclr_oral36) Deformable DETR: Deformable Transformers for End-to-End Object Detection
### spot
2. [*](#iclr_spot71) Unsupervised Object Keypoint Learning using Local Spatial Predictability
3. [*](#iclr_spot98) LambdaNetworks: Modeling long-range Interactions without Attention
4. [*](#iclr_spot99) Mind the Pad -- CNNs Can Develop Blind Spots
5. [*](#iclr_spot105) Self-supervised Visual Reinforcement Learning with Object-centric Representations
6. [*](#iclr_spot111) MARS: Markov Molecular Sampling for Multi-objective Drug Discovery
### poster
7. [*](#iclr_poster22) Negative Data Augmentation 
8. [*](#iclr_poster61) Estimating and Evaluating Regression Predictive Uncertainty in Deep Object Detectors
9. [*](#iclr_poster62) Predicting Classification Accuracy When Adding New Unobserved Classes
10. [*](#iclr_poster63) BRECQ: Pushing the Limit of Post-Training Quantization by Block Reconstruction
11. [*](#iclr_poster67) Improve Object Detection with Feature-based Knowledge Distillation: Towards Accurate and Efficient Detectors
12. [*](#iclr_poster77) Self-supervised Learning from a Multi-view Perspective
13. [*](#iclr_poster185) Contemplating Real-World Object Classification
14. [*](#iclr_poster194) Unbiased Teacher for Semi-Supervised Object Detection
15. [*](#iclr_poster246) What Makes Instance Discrimination Good for Transfer Learning?
16. [*](#iclr_poster248) Loss Function Discovery for Object Detection via Convergence-Simulation Driven Search
17. [*](#iclr_poster267) Noise or Signal: The Role of Image Backgrounds in Object Recognition
18. [*](#iclr_poster286) AdamP: Slowing Down the Slowdown for Momentum Optimizers on Scale-invariant Weights
19. [*](#iclr_poster371) SaliencyMix: A Saliency Guided Data Augmentation Strategy for Better Regularization
20. [*](#iclr_poster379) Grounding Physical Concepts of Objects and Events Through Dynamic Visual Reasoning
21. [*](#iclr_poster438) MoVie: Revisiting Modulated Convolutions for Visual Counting and Beyond
22. [*](#iclr_poster497) Sharper Generalization Bounds for Learning with Gradient-dominated Objective Functions
23. [*](#iclr_poster556) Unsupervised Discovery of 3D Physical Objects from Video
24. [*](#iclr_poster572) CoCo: Controllable Counterfactuals for Evaluating Dialogue State Trackers
25. [*](#iclr_poster588) Conditional Negative Sampling for Contrastive Learning of Visual Representations
26. [*](#iclr_poster621) VTNet: Visual Transformer Network for Object Goal Navigation
27. [*](#iclr_poster629) Generating Furry Cars: Disentangling Object Shape and Appearance across Multiple Domains
28. [*](#iclr_poster631) Disentangling 3D Prototypical Networks for Few-Shot Concept Learning
29. [*](#iclr_poster633) HyperDynamics: Meta-Learning Object and Agent Dynamics with Hypernetworks
30. [*](#iclr_poster669) CO2: Consistent Contrast for Unsupervised Visual Representation Learning
31. [*](#iclr_poster689) PolarNet: Learning to Optimize Polar Keypoints for Keypoint Based Object Detection

> oral
#### iclr_oral36
##### Deformable DETR: Deformable Transformers for End-to-End Object Detection
- [Back to List](#oral)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=gZ9hCDWe6ke)
- DETR has been recently proposed to eliminate the need for many hand-designed components in object detection while demonstrating good performance. However, it suffers from slow convergence and limited feature spatial resolution, due to the limitation of Transformer attention modules in processing image feature maps. To mitigate these issues, we proposed Deformable DETR, whose attention modules only attend to a small set of key sampling points around a reference. Deformable DETR can achieve better performance than DETR (especially on small objects) with 10$\times$ less training epochs. Extensive experiments on the COCO benchmark demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. Code is released at https://github.com/fundamentalvision/Deformable-DETR.

> spot
#### iclr_spot71
##### Unsupervised Object Keypoint Learning using Local Spatial Predictability
- [Back to List](#spot)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=GJwMHetHc73)
- We propose PermaKey, a novel approach to representation learning based on object keypoints. It leverages the predictability of local image regions from spatial neighborhoods to identify salient regions that correspond to object parts, which are then converted to keypoints. Unlike prior approaches, it utilizes predictability to discover object keypoints, an intrinsic property of objects. This ensures that it does not overly bias keypoints to focus on characteristics that are not unique to objects, such as movement, shape, colour etc.  We demonstrate the efficacy of PermaKey on Atari where it learns keypoints corresponding to the most salient object parts and is robust to certain visual distractors. Further, on downstream RL tasks in the Atari domain we demonstrate how agents equipped with our keypoints outperform those using competing alternatives, even on challenging environments with moving backgrounds or distractor objects.
#### iclr_spot98
##### LambdaNetworks: Modeling long-range Interactions without Attention
- [Back to List](#spot)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=xTJEN-ggl1b)
- We present lambda layers -- an alternative framework to self-attention -- for capturing long-range interactions between an input and structured contextual information (e.g. a pixel surrounded by other pixels). Lambda layers capture such interactions by transforming available contexts into linear functions, termed lambdas, and applying these linear functions to each input separately. Similar to linear attention, lambda layers bypass expensive attention maps, but in contrast, they model both content and position-based interactions which enables their application to large structured inputs such as images. The resulting neural network architectures, LambdaNetworks, significantly outperform their convolutional and attentional counterparts on ImageNet classification, COCO object detection and instance segmentation, while being more computationally efficient. Additionally, we design LambdaResNets, a family of hybrid architectures across different scales, that considerably improves the speed-accuracy tradeoff of image classification models. LambdaResNets reach excellent accuracies on ImageNet while being 3.2 - 4.4x faster than the popular EfficientNets on modern machine learning accelerators. In large-scale semi-supervised training with an additional 130M pseudo-labeled images, LambdaResNets achieve up to 86.7% ImageNet accuracy while being 9.5x faster than EfficientNet NoisyStudent and 9x faster than a Vision Transformer with comparable accuracies.
#### iclr_spot99
##### Mind the Pad -- CNNs Can Develop Blind Spots
- [Back to List](#spot)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=m1CD7tPubNy)
- We show how feature maps in convolutional networks are susceptible to spatial bias. Due to a combination of architectural choices, the activation at certain locations is systematically elevated or weakened. The major source of this bias is the padding mechanism. Depending on several aspects of convolution arithmetic, this mechanism can apply the padding unevenly, leading to asymmetries in the learned weights. We demonstrate how such bias can be detrimental to certain tasks such as small object detection: the activation is suppressed if the stimulus lies in the impacted area, leading to blind spots and misdetection. We explore alternative padding methods and propose solutions for analyzing and mitigating spatial bias.
#### iclr_spot105
##### Self-supervised Visual Reinforcement Learning with Object-centric Representations
- [Back to List](#spot)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=xppLmXCbOw1)
- Autonomous agents need large repertoires of skills to act reasonably on new tasks that they have not seen before. However, acquiring these skills using only a stream of high-dimensional, unstructured, and unlabeled observations is a tricky challenge for any autonomous agent. Previous methods have used variational autoencoders to encode a scene into a low-dimensional vector that can be used as a goal for an agent to discover new skills. Nevertheless, in compositional/multi-object environments it is difficult to disentangle all the factors of variation into such a fixed-length representation of the whole scene. We propose to use object-centric representations as a modular and structured observation space, which is learned with a compositional generative world model.
#### iclr_spot111
##### MARS: Markov Molecular Sampling for Multi-objective Drug Discovery
- [Back to List](#spot)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=kHSu4ebxFXY)
- Searching for novel molecules with desired chemical properties is crucial in drug discovery. Existing work focuses on developing neural models to generate either molecular sequences or chemical graphs. However, it remains a big challenge to find novel and diverse compounds satisfying several properties. In this paper, we propose MARS, a method for multi-objective drug molecule discovery. MARS is based on the idea of generating the chemical candidates by iteratively editing fragments of molecular graphs. To search for high-quality candidates, it employs Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling (MCMC) on molecules with an annealing scheme and an adaptive proposal. To further improve sample efficiency, MARS uses a graph neural network (GNN) to represent and select candidate edits, where the GNN is trained on-the-fly with samples from MCMC. Experiments show that MARS achieves state-of-the-art performance in various multi-objective settings where molecular bio-activity, drug-likeness, and synthesizability are considered. Remarkably, in the most challenging setting where all four objectives are simultaneously optimized, our approach outperforms previous methods significantly in comprehensive evaluations. The code is available at https://github.com/yutxie/mars.

> poster
#### iclr_poster22
##### Negative Data Augmentation 
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=Ovp8dvB8IBH)
- Data augmentation is often used to enlarge datasets with synthetic samples generated in accordance with the underlying data distribution. To enable a wider range of augmentations, we explore negative data augmentation strategies (NDA) that intentionally create out-of-distribution samples. We show that such negative out-of-distribution samples provide information on the support of the data distribution,  and can be leveraged for generative modeling and representation learning. We introduce a new GAN training objective where we use NDA as an additional source of synthetic data for the discriminator. We prove that under suitable conditions, optimizing the resulting objective still recovers the true data distribution but can directly bias the generator towards avoiding samples that lack the desired structure. Empirically, models trained with our method achieve improved conditional/unconditional image generation along with improved anomaly detection capabilities. Further, we incorporate the same negative data augmentation strategy in a contrastive learning framework for self-supervised representation learning on images and videos, achieving improved performance on downstream image classification, object detection, and action recognition tasks. These results suggest that prior knowledge on what does not constitute valid data is an effective form of weak supervision across a range of unsupervised learning tasks.
#### iclr_poster61
##### Estimating and Evaluating Regression Predictive Uncertainty in Deep Object Detectors
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=YLewtnvKgR7)
- Predictive uncertainty estimation is an essential next step for the reliable deployment of deep object detectors in safety-critical tasks. In this work, we focus on estimating predictive distributions for bounding box regression output with variance networks. We show that in the context of object detection, training variance networks with negative log likelihood (NLL) can lead to high entropy predictive distributions regardless of the correctness of the output mean. We propose to use the energy score as a non-local proper scoring rule and find that when used for training, the energy score leads to better calibrated and lower entropy predictive distributions than NLL. We also address the widespread use of non-proper scoring metrics for evaluating predictive distributions from deep object detectors by proposing an alternate evaluation approach founded on proper scoring rules. Using the proposed evaluation tools, we show that although variance networks can be used to produce high quality predictive distributions, ad-hoc approaches used by seminal object detectors for choosing regression targets during training do not provide wide enough data support for reliable variance learning. We hope that our work helps shift evaluation in probabilistic object detection to better align with predictive uncertainty evaluation in other machine learning domains. Code for all models, evaluation, and datasets is available at: https://github.com/asharakeh/probdet.git.
#### iclr_poster62
##### Predicting Classification Accuracy When Adding New Unobserved Classes
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=Y9McSeEaqUh)
- Multiclass classifiers are often designed and evaluated only on a sample from the classes on which they will eventually be applied. Hence, their final accuracy remains unknown. In this work we study how a classifier’s performance over the initial class sample can be used to extrapolate its expected accuracy on a larger, unobserved set of classes. For this, we define a measure of separation between correct and incorrect classes that is independent of the number of classes: the "reversed ROC" (rROC), which is obtained by replacing the roles of classes and data-points in the common ROC. We show that the classification accuracy is a function of the rROC in multiclass classifiers, for which the learned representation of data from the initial class sample remains unchanged when new classes are added. Using these results we formulate a robust neural-network-based algorithm, "CleaneX", which learns to estimate the accuracy of such classifiers on arbitrarily large sets of classes. Unlike previous methods, our method uses both the observed accuracies of the classifier and densities of classification scores, and therefore achieves remarkably better predictions than current state-of-the-art methods on both simulations and real datasets of object detection, face recognition, and brain decoding.
#### iclr_poster63
##### BRECQ: Pushing the Limit of Post-Training Quantization by Block Reconstruction
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=POWv6hDd9XH)
- We study the challenging task of neural network quantization without end-to-end retraining, called Post-training Quantization (PTQ). PTQ usually requires a small subset of training data but produces less powerful quantized models than Quantization-Aware Training (QAT). In this work, we propose a novel PTQ framework, dubbed BRECQ, which pushes the limits of bitwidth in PTQ down to INT2 for the first time. BRECQ leverages the basic building blocks in neural networks and reconstructs them one-by-one. In a comprehensive theoretical study of the second-order error, we show that BRECQ achieves a good balance between cross-layer dependency and generalization error. To further employ the power of quantization, the mixed precision technique is incorporated in our framework by approximating the inter-layer and intra-layer sensitivity. Extensive experiments on various handcrafted and searched neural architectures are conducted for both image classification and object detection tasks. And for the first time we prove that, without bells and whistles, PTQ can attain 4-bit ResNet and MobileNetV2 comparable with QAT and enjoy 240 times faster production of quantized models.  Codes are available at https://github.com/yhhhli/BRECQ.
#### iclr_poster67
##### Improve Object Detection with Feature-based Knowledge Distillation: Towards Accurate and Efficient Detectors
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=uKhGRvM8QNH)
- Knowledge distillation, in which a student model is trained to mimic a teacher model, has been proved as an effective technique for model compression and model accuracy boosting. However, most knowledge distillation methods, designed for image classification, have failed on more challenging tasks, such as object detection. In this paper, we suggest that the failure of knowledge distillation on object detection is mainly caused by two reasons: (1) the imbalance between pixels of foreground and background and (2) lack of distillation on the relation between different pixels. Observing the above reasons, we propose attention-guided distillation and non-local distillation to address the two problems, respectively.  Attention-guided distillation is proposed to find the crucial pixels of foreground objects with attention mechanism and then make the students take more effort to learn their features. Non-local distillation is proposed to enable students to learn not only the feature of an individual pixel but also the relation between different pixels captured by non-local modules. Experiments show that our methods achieve excellent AP improvements on both one-stage and two-stage, both anchor-based and anchor-free detectors. For example, Faster RCNN (ResNet101 backbone) with our distillation achieves 43.9 AP on COCO2017, which is 4.1 higher than the baseline. Codes have been released on Github.
#### iclr_poster77
##### Self-supervised Learning from a Multi-view Perspective
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=-bdp_8Itjwp)
- As a subset of unsupervised representation learning, self-supervised representation learning adopts self-defined signals as supervision and uses the learned representation for downstream tasks, such as object detection and image captioning. Many proposed approaches for self-supervised learning follow naturally a multi-view perspective, where the input (e.g., original images) and the self-supervised signals (e.g., augmented images) can be seen as two redundant views of the data. Building from this multi-view perspective, this paper provides an information-theoretical framework to better understand the properties that encourage successful self-supervised learning. Specifically, we demonstrate that self-supervised learned representations can extract task-relevant information and discard task-irrelevant information. Our theoretical framework paves the way to a larger space of self-supervised learning objective design. In particular, we propose a composite objective that bridges the gap between prior contrastive and predictive learning objectives, and introduce an additional objective term to discard task-irrelevant information. To verify our analysis, we conduct controlled experiments to evaluate the impact of the composite objectives. We also explore our framework's empirical generalization beyond the multi-view perspective, where the cross-view redundancy may not be clearly observed.
#### iclr_poster185
##### Contemplating Real-World Object Classification
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=Q4EUywJIkqr)
- Deep object recognition models have been very successful over benchmark
#### iclr_poster194
##### Unbiased Teacher for Semi-Supervised Object Detection
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=MJIve1zgR_)
- Semi-supervised learning, i.e., training networks with both labeled and unlabeled data, has made significant progress recently. However, existing works have primarily focused on image classification tasks and neglected object detection which requires more annotation effort. In this work, we revisit the Semi-Supervised Object Detection (SS-OD) and identify the pseudo-labeling bias issue in SS-OD. To address this, we introduce Unbiased Teacher, a simple yet effective approach that jointly trains a student and a gradually progressing teacher in a mutually-beneficial manner. Together with a class-balance loss to downweight overly confident pseudo-labels, Unbiased Teacher consistently improved state-of-the-art methods by significant margins on COCO-standard, COCO-additional, and VOC datasets. Specifically, Unbiased Teacher achieves 6.8 absolute mAP improvements against state-of-the-art method when using 1% of labeled data on MS-COCO, achieves around 10 mAP improvements against the supervised baseline when using only 0.5, 1, 2% of labeled data on MS-COCO.
#### iclr_poster246
##### What Makes Instance Discrimination Good for Transfer Learning?
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=tC6iW2UUbJf)
- Contrastive visual pretraining based on the instance discrimination pretext task has made significant progress. Notably, recent work on unsupervised pretraining has shown to surpass the supervised counterpart for finetuning downstream applications such as object detection and segmentation.   It comes as a surprise that image annotations would be better left unused for transfer learning.  In this work, we investigate the following problems: What makes instance discrimination pretraining good for transfer learning? What knowledge is actually learned and transferred from these models?  From this understanding of instance discrimination, how can we better exploit human annotation labels for pretraining? Our findings are threefold. First, what truly matters for the transfer is low-level and mid-level representations, not high-level representations.  Second, the intra-category invariance enforced by the traditional supervised model weakens transferability by increasing task misalignment. Finally, supervised pretraining can be strengthened by following an exemplar-based approach without explicit constraints among the instances within the same category.
#### iclr_poster248
##### Loss Function Discovery for Object Detection via Convergence-Simulation Driven Search
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=5jzlpHvvRk)
- Designing proper loss functions for vision tasks has been a long-standing research direction to advance the capability of existing models. For object detection, the well-established classification and regression loss functions have been carefully designed by considering diverse learning challenges (e.g. class imbalance, hard negative samples, and scale variances). Inspired by the recent progress in network architecture search, it is interesting to explore the possibility of discovering new loss function formulations via directly searching the primitive operation combinations. So that the learned losses not only fit for diverse object detection challenges to alleviate huge human efforts, but also have better alignment with evaluation metric and good mathematical convergence property. Beyond the previous auto-loss works on face recognition and image classification, our work makes the first attempt to discover new loss functions for the challenging object detection from primitive operation levels and finds the searched losses are insightful. We propose an effective convergence-simulation driven evolutionary search algorithm, called CSE-Autoloss, for speeding up the search progress by regularizing the mathematical rationality of loss candidates via two progressive convergence simulation modules: convergence property verification and model optimization simulation. CSE-Autoloss involves the search space (i.e. 21 mathematical operators, 3 constant-type inputs, and 3 variable-type inputs) that cover a wide range of the possible variants of existing losses and discovers best-searched loss function combination within a short time (around 1.5 wall-clock days with 20x speedup in comparison to the vanilla evolutionary algorithm). We conduct extensive evaluations of loss function search on popular detectors and validate the good generalization capability of searched losses across diverse architectures and various datasets. Our experiments show that the best-discovered loss function combinations outperform default combinations (Cross-entropy/Focal loss for classification and L1 loss for regression) by 1.1% and 0.8% in terms of mAP for two-stage and one-stage detectors on COCO respectively. Our searched losses are available at https://github.com/PerdonLiu/CSE-Autoloss.
#### iclr_poster267
##### Noise or Signal: The Role of Image Backgrounds in Object Recognition
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=gl3D-xY7wLq)
- We assess the tendency of state-of-the-art object recognition models to depend on signals from image backgrounds. We create a toolkit for disentangling foreground and background signal on ImageNet images, and find that (a) models can achieve non-trivial accuracy by relying on the background alone, (b) models often misclassify images even in the presence of correctly classified foregrounds--up to 88% of the time with adversarially chosen backgrounds, and (c) more accurate models tend to depend on backgrounds less. Our analysis of backgrounds brings us closer to understanding which correlations machine learning models use, and how they determine models' out of distribution performance.
#### iclr_poster286
##### AdamP: Slowing Down the Slowdown for Momentum Optimizers on Scale-invariant Weights
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=Iz3zU3M316D)
- Normalization techniques, such as batch normalization (BN), are a boon for modern deep learning. They let weights converge more quickly with often better generalization performances. It has been argued that the normalization-induced scale invariance among the weights provides an advantageous ground for gradient descent (GD) optimizers: the effective step sizes are automatically reduced over time, stabilizing the overall training procedure. It is often overlooked, however, that the additional introduction of momentum in GD optimizers results in a far more rapid reduction in effective step sizes for scale-invariant weights, a phenomenon that has not yet been studied and may have caused unwanted side effects in the current practice. This is a crucial issue because arguably the vast majority of modern deep neural networks consist of (1) momentum-based GD (e.g. SGD or Adam) and (2) scale-invariant parameters (e.g. more than 90% of the weights in ResNet are scale-invariant due to BN). In this paper, we verify that the widely-adopted combination of the two ingredients lead to the premature decay of effective step sizes and sub-optimal model performances. We propose a simple and effective remedy, SGDP and AdamP: get rid of the radial component, or the norm-increasing direction, at each optimizer step. Because of the scale invariance, this modification only alters the effective step sizes without changing the effective update directions, thus enjoying the original convergence properties of GD optimizers. Given the ubiquity of momentum GD and scale invariance in machine learning, we have evaluated our methods against the baselines on 13 benchmarks. They range from vision tasks like classification (e.g. ImageNet), retrieval (e.g. CUB and SOP), and detection (e.g. COCO) to language modelling (e.g. WikiText) and audio classification (e.g. DCASE) tasks. We verify that our solution brings about uniform gains in performances in those benchmarks. Source code is available at https://github.com/clovaai/adamp
#### iclr_poster371
##### SaliencyMix: A Saliency Guided Data Augmentation Strategy for Better Regularization
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=-M0QkvBGTTq)
- Advanced data augmentation strategies have widely been studied to improve the generalization ability of deep learning models. Regional dropout is one of the popular solutions that guides the model to focus on less discriminative parts by randomly removing image regions, resulting in improved regularization. However, such information removal is undesirable. On the other hand, recent strategies suggest to randomly cut and mix patches and their labels among training images, to enjoy the advantages of regional dropout without having any pointless pixel in the augmented images. We argue that such random selection strategies of the patches may not necessarily represent sufficient information about the corresponding object and thereby mixing the labels according to that uninformative patch enables the model to learn unexpected feature representation. Therefore, we propose SaliencyMix that carefully selects a representative image patch with the help of a saliency map and mixes this indicative patch with the target image, thus leading the model to learn more appropriate feature representation. SaliencyMix achieves the best known top-1 error of $21.26\%$ and $20.09\%$ for ResNet-50 and ResNet-101 architectures on ImageNet classification, respectively, and also improves the model robustness against adversarial perturbations. Furthermore, models that are trained with SaliencyMix, help to improve the object detection performance.  Source code is available at \url{https://github.com/SaliencyMix/SaliencyMix}.
#### iclr_poster379
##### Grounding Physical Concepts of Objects and Events Through Dynamic Visual Reasoning
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=bhCDO_cEGCz)
- We study the problem of dynamic visual reasoning on raw videos. This is a challenging problem; currently, state-of-the-art models often require dense supervision on physical object properties and events from simulation, which are impractical to obtain in real life. In this paper, we present the Dynamic Concept Learner (DCL), a unified framework that grounds physical objects and events from video and language. DCL first adopts a trajectory extractor to track each object over time and to represent it as a latent, object-centric feature vector. Building upon this object-centric representation, DCL learns to approximate the dynamic interaction among objects using graph networks. DCL further incorporates a semantic parser to parse question into semantic programs and, finally, a program executor to run the program to answer the question, levering the learned dynamics model. After training, DCL can detect and associate objects across the frames, ground visual properties and physical events, understand the causal relationship between events, make future and counterfactual predictions, and leverage these extracted presentations for answering queries. DCL achieves state-of-the-art performance on CLEVRER, a challenging causal video reasoning dataset, even without using ground-truth attributes and collision labels from simulations for training. We further test DCL on a newly proposed video-retrieval and event localization dataset derived from CLEVRER, showing its strong generalization capacity.
#### iclr_poster438
##### MoVie: Revisiting Modulated Convolutions for Visual Counting and Beyond
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=8e6BrwU6AjQ)
- This paper focuses on visual counting, which aims to predict the number of occurrences given a natural image and a query (e.g. a question or a category). Unlike most prior works that use explicit, symbolic models which can be computationally expensive and limited in generalization, we propose a simple and effective alternative by revisiting modulated convolutions that fuse the query and the image locally. Following the design of residual bottleneck, we call our method MoVie, short for Modulated conVolutional bottlenecks. Notably, MoVie reasons implicitly and holistically and only needs a single forward-pass during inference. Nevertheless, MoVie showcases strong performance for counting: 1) advancing the state-of-the-art on counting-specific VQA tasks while being more efficient; 2) outperforming prior-art on difficult benchmarks like COCO for common object counting; 3) helped us secure the first place of 2020 VQA challenge when integrated as a module for ‘number’ related questions in generic VQA models. Finally, we show evidence that modulated convolutions such as MoVie can serve as a general mechanism for reasoning tasks beyond counting.
#### iclr_poster497
##### Sharper Generalization Bounds for Learning with Gradient-dominated Objective Functions
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=r28GdiQF7vM)
- Stochastic optimization has become the workhorse behind many successful machine learning applications, which motivates a lot of theoretical analysis to understand its empirical behavior. As a comparison, there is far less work to study the generalization behavior especially in a non-convex learning setting. In this paper, we study the generalization behavior of stochastic optimization by leveraging the algorithmic stability for learning with $\beta$-gradient-dominated objective functions. We develop generalization bounds of the order $O(1/(n\beta))$ plus the convergence rate of the optimization algorithm, where $n$ is the sample size. Our stability analysis significantly improves the existing non-convex analysis by removing the bounded gradient assumption and implying better generalization bounds. We achieve this improvement by exploiting the smoothness of loss functions instead of the Lipschitz condition in Charles & Papailiopoulos (2018). We apply our general results to various stochastic optimization algorithms, which show clearly how the variance-reduction techniques improve not only training but also generalization. Furthermore, our discussion explains how interpolation helps generalization for highly expressive models.
#### iclr_poster556
##### Unsupervised Discovery of 3D Physical Objects from Video
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=lf7st0bJIA5)
- We study the problem of unsupervised physical object discovery. While existing frameworks aim to decompose scenes into 2D segments based off each object's appearance, we explore how physics, especially object interactions, facilitates disentangling of 3D geometry and position of objects from video, in an unsupervised manner. Drawing inspiration from developmental psychology, our Physical Object Discovery Network (POD-Net) uses both multi-scale pixel cues and physical motion cues to accurately segment observable and partially occluded objects of varying sizes, and infer properties of those objects. Our model reliably segments objects on both synthetic and real scenes.  The discovered object properties can also be used to reason about physical events.
#### iclr_poster572
##### CoCo: Controllable Counterfactuals for Evaluating Dialogue State Trackers
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=eom0IUrF__F)
- Dialogue state trackers have made significant progress on benchmark datasets, but their generalization capability to novel and realistic scenarios beyond the held- out conversations is less understood. We propose controllable counterfactuals (COCO) to bridge this gap and evaluate dialogue state tracking (DST) models on novel scenarios, i.e., would the system successfully tackle the request if the user responded differently but still consistently with the dialogue flow? COCO leverages turn-level belief states as counterfactual conditionals to produce novel conversation scenarios in two steps: (i) counterfactual goal generation at turn- level by dropping and adding slots followed by replacing slot values, (ii) counterfactual conversation generation that is conditioned on (i) and consistent with the dialogue flow. Evaluating state-of-the-art DST models on MultiWOZ dataset with COCO-generated counterfactuals results in a significant performance drop of up to 30.8% (from 49.4% to 18.6%) in absolute joint goal accuracy. In comparison, widely used techniques like paraphrasing only affect the accuracy by at most 2%. Human evaluations show that COCO-generated conversations perfectly reflect the underlying user goal with more than 95% accuracy and are as human-like as the original conversations, further strengthening its reliability and promise to be adopted as part of the robustness evaluation of DST models.
#### iclr_poster588
##### Conditional Negative Sampling for Contrastive Learning of Visual Representations
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=v8b3e5jN66j)
- Recent methods for learning unsupervised visual representations, dubbed contrastive learning, optimize the noise-contrastive estimation (NCE) bound on mutual information between two transformations of an image. NCE typically uses randomly sampled negative examples to normalize the objective, but this may often include many uninformative examples either because they are too easy or too hard to discriminate. Taking inspiration from  metric learning, we show that choosing semi-hard negatives can yield stronger contrastive representations. To do this, we introduce a family of mutual information estimators that sample negatives conditionally -- in a "ring" around each positive. We prove that these estimators remain lower-bounds of mutual information, with higher bias but lower variance than NCE. Experimentally, we find our approach, applied on top of existing models (IR, CMC, and MoCo) improves accuracy by 2-5% absolute points in each case, measured by linear evaluation on four standard image benchmarks. Moreover, we find continued benefits when transferring features to a variety of new image distributions from the Meta-Dataset collection and to a variety of downstream tasks such as object detection, instance segmentation, and key-point detection.
#### iclr_poster621
##### VTNet: Visual Transformer Network for Object Goal Navigation
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=DILxQP08O3B)
- I acknowledge that I and all co-authors of this work have read and commit to adhering to the ICLR Code of Ethics
#### iclr_poster629
##### Generating Furry Cars: Disentangling Object Shape and Appearance across Multiple Domains
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=M88oFvqp_9)
- We consider the novel task of learning disentangled representations of object shape and appearance across multiple domains (e.g., dogs and cars).  The goal is to learn a generative model that learns an intermediate distribution, which borrows a subset of properties from each domain, enabling the generation of images that did not exist in any domain exclusively.  This challenging problem requires an accurate disentanglement of object shape, appearance, and background from each domain, so that the appearance and shape factors from the two domains can be interchanged. We augment an existing approach that can disentangle factors within a single domain but struggles to do so across domains.  Our key technical contribution is to represent object appearance with a differentiable histogram of visual features, and to optimize the generator so that two images with the same latent appearance factor but different latent shape factors produce similar histograms. On multiple multi-domain datasets, we demonstrate our method leads to accurate and consistent appearance and shape transfer across domains.
#### iclr_poster631
##### Disentangling 3D Prototypical Networks for Few-Shot Concept Learning
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=-Lr-u0b42he)
- We present neural architectures that disentangle RGB-D images into objects’ shapes and styles and a map of the background scene, and explore their applications for few-shot 3D object detection and few-shot concept classification. Our networks incorporate architectural biases that reflect the image formation process, 3D  geometry of the world scene, and shape-style interplay. They are trained end-to-end self-supervised by predicting views in static scenes, alongside a small number of 3D object boxes. Objects and scenes are represented in terms of 3D feature grids in the bottleneck of the network. We show the proposed 3D neural representations are compositional: they can generate novel 3D scene feature maps by mixing object shapes and styles, resizing and adding the resulting object 3D feature maps over background scene feature maps. We show object detectors trained on hallucinated 3D neural scenes generalize better to novel environments. We show classifiers for object categories, color, materials, and spatial relationships trained over the  disentangled 3D feature sub-spaces generalize better with dramatically fewer exemplars over the current state-of-the-art, and enable a visual question answering system that uses them as its modules to generalize one-shot to novel objects in the scene.
#### iclr_poster633
##### HyperDynamics: Meta-Learning Object and Agent Dynamics with Hypernetworks
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=pHXfe1cOmA)
- I acknowledge that I and all co-authors of this work have read and commit to adhering to the ICLR Code of Ethics
#### iclr_poster669
##### CO2: Consistent Contrast for Unsupervised Visual Representation Learning
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=U4XLJhqwNF1)
- Contrastive learning has recently been a core for unsupervised visual representation learning. Without human annotation, the common practice is to perform an instance discrimination task: Given a query image crop, label crops from the same image as positives, and crops from other randomly sampled images as negatives. An important limitation of this label assignment is that it can not reflect the heterogeneous similarity of the query crop to crops from other images, but regarding them as equally negative. To address this issue, inspired by consistency regularization in semi-supervised learning, we propose Consistent Contrast (CO2), which introduces a consistency term into unsupervised contrastive learning framework. The consistency term takes the similarity of the query crop to crops from other images as unlabeled, and the corresponding similarity of a positive crop as a pseudo label. It then encourages consistency between these two similarities. Empirically, CO2 improves Momentum Contrast (MoCo) by 2.9% top-1 accuracy on ImageNet linear protocol, 3.8% and 1.1% top-5 accuracy on 1% and 10% labeled semi-supervised settings. It also transfers to image classification, object detection, and semantic segmentation on PASCAL VOC. This shows that CO2 learns better visual representations for downstream tasks.
#### iclr_poster689
##### PolarNet: Learning to Optimize Polar Keypoints for Keypoint Based Object Detection
- [Back to List](#poster)
- [link](https://openreview.net/forum?id=TYXs_y84xRj)
- A variety of anchor-free object detectors have been actively proposed as possible alternatives to the mainstream anchor-based detectors that often rely on complicated design of anchor boxes. Despite achieving promising performance on par with anchor-based detectors, the existing anchor-free detectors such as FCOS or CenterNet predict objects based on standard Cartesian coordinates, which often yield poor quality keypoints. Further, the feature representation is also scale-sensitive. In this paper, we propose a new anchor-free keypoint based detector ``PolarNet", where keypoints are represented as a set of Polar coordinates instead of Cartesian coordinates. The ``PolarNet" detector learns offsets pointing to the corners of objects in order to learn high quality keypoints. Additionally, PolarNet uses features of corner points to localize objects, making the localization scale-insensitive. Finally in our experiments, we show that PolarNet, an anchor-free detector, outperforms the existing anchor-free detectors, and it is able to achieve highly competitive result on COCO test-dev benchmark ($47.8\%$ and $50.3\%$ AP under the single-model single-scale and multi-scale testing) which is on par with the state-of-the-art two-stage anchor-based object detectors. The code and the models are available at https://github.com/XiongweiWu/PolarNetV1

